Chapter One

"WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?" No one acknowledged Sophie's question.

Everyone was too busy shouting over each other—a thunderous storm of "How?" and "Where?" and "Why?" and, most important, "Who?"

Who was this strange, gray-cloaked female who'd appeared out of thin air and announced in a dark, melodic voice that her name was Elysian and she was the power source they were all looking for?

How was that possible?

How could a person be a power source?

Better yet: What did she want—and how afraid should they be?

They were already facing down one murderer and an army of bloodthirsty mutant trolls—and their only bodyguard had been captured.

But this new arrival could prove to be infinitely more terrifying.

Elysian didn’t offer any clues or clarifications.

She just pulled her hood tighter around her neck, keeping her face noticeably hidden as she stood eerily silent—until Lady Gisela’s haughty, horrible voice raised the question that Sophie wished she’d thought to ask first.

“What did you do to us?”

Elysian spun toward her. “I have done nothing.”

“Oh really?” Lady Gisela stretched out her hand, snapped her fingers, and . . .

Nothing happened.

Sophie wasn’t sure if she was relieved.

She definitely didn’t mind that Keefe’s mom couldn’t conjure up another terrifying shard of rock—especially since the last one had somehow turned Vespera into a lifeless, twisted, red-stained spire.

But Lady Gisela’s ability wasn’t the only one currently malfunctioning.

Sophie had been in the middle of a particularly intense rage-frenzy when it felt like someone reached into her brain and somehow flicked off her inflicting. She also couldn’t hear what anyone was thinking, and none of her friends were responding to her transmissions. Maruca's force field had also vanished, and Marella's fireballs were nothing more than wisps of smoke—and Fitz kept rubbing his temples like he had a terrible migraine while Keefe stared numbly at his hands.

For the moment, they seemed to be… Talentless.

But how was that possible?

Abilities couldn't be switched off—everyone knew that.

So what was happening?

And was it… permanent?

All Elysian said was “I am not responsible for what happens to trespassers.”

“But you know what’s causing our current limitations?” Lady Gisela pressed, trailing her fingers across the metal net covering her sleek blond updo.

The gadget usually shielded her from special abilities—but it hadn’t spared her from the effects of whatever this was.

Even her creepy trolls had halted their attacks.

The four of them now flanked Gisela—but their eyes were glazed, and their jaws had fallen slack.

“Is this the reason you call yourself a ‘power source’?” Gisela wondered. “Or is it how the Council has contained you? Or maybe—”

“I am not here to solve your mysteries,” Elysian interrupted.

“Then why are you here?” Fitz, Sophie, Keefe, Marella, and Maruca all asked in unison.

“I am always here. It is you who do not belong.” Elysian angled her head toward the enormous stained-glass dome encasing everything around them, painting the rolling hills with glints of colorful light. “I want to know how you found me.”

“You’ll have to ask her.” Lady Gisela waved her hand toward Sophie. “She’s the one who brought everyone here. I simply followed my tracker—and you can relax, Keefe. It wasn’t you. This time.”

“Then who was it?” Sophie demanded.

“Doesn’t matter,” Keefe said, rushing to her side like he knew she was tempted to lunge for his mom’s throat. “She’s just trying to distract us—probably buying time for her creepy trolls to recover so she can have them haul Elysian away.”

“If that is your plan, you will strongly regret it,” Elysian warned as flashbacks of Sandor’s brutal abduction tore through Sophie’s head, feeling just as sharp as the fangs and claws of the trolls who’d grabbed him.

Her loyal bodyguard rarely showed any trace of fear, but his eyes had looked haunted as he’d disappeared into the earth.

We’ll get him back, she promised herself, studying the mound of dirt where Sandor had been dragged under, relieved to see no hint of blood. Maybe if we—

“I believe you,” Lady Gisela said, interrupting Sophie’s hasty rescue plans. “But there’s no need for such dramatics. After all, we’re just having a nice, friendly conversation, aren’t we? In fact…” She tapped her silver earpiece and mumbled something Sophie couldn’t understand. “See?” she said as all four trolls tunneled back into the soil. “It’s a good thing I memorized their commands, since my mastery of language seems to have left me for the moment. Care to explain why?”

Elysian shook her head—then adjusted her hood to cover a few strands of long red hair that had slipped free. “I want to know how you found me.”

Gisela sighed and pointed to Sophie. “Like I said—you’ll have to ask her. She’s what you might call their ‘leader.’”

“Yeah, and I found this place by tracking down your lost starstone,” Sophie reminded her. “Starstones only go somewhere they’ve already been—so why don’t you tell us how you got here the first time?”

“You have been here before?” Elysian murmured. “I… do not remember that.”

“Probably because I didn’t stay very long. I didn’t understand what I’d found. Clearly, I still don’t.” Gisela flashed a smile that was probably meant to look charming, but the too-tight skin on her face warped it into something much uglier. “I thought I was hunting down a place—not a person. Following clues scribbled on the tatters of a long-forgotten map to ‘whispering rapids’ and ‘butterflies kissed with red,’ where there was supposed to be a source of world-changing power—but apparently that was a mix of half-truths and outright lies, buried under illusion after illusion. All to hide you.” She moved closer, studying Elysian through narrowed eyes. “You might be the best-kept secret in our world’s long history.”

Elysian turned away.

Gisela dared another step. “Care to share why you’ve been erased and locked up for what I’m assuming has been several millennia?”

“Um, if you’re going to launch into a big speech about how you were wronged by the Council, or tell us why you’re this new, ultra-scary villain we’re going to have to deal with, can you try to keep it short? We’ve had to listen to a lot of those kinds of speeches,” Marella said.

“Yeah, we have,” Keefe muttered. “Mommy Dearest is a master of them. In fact, I’m sure she’ll be treating us to her boring sales pitch any minute now, trying to convince you to join her side—which I one-thousand-percent don’t recommend, by the way.”

“I will not be making any alliances,” Elysian assured him—though that meant she wasn’t planning to be on their side either.

Assuming they could believe anything she said.

“I also have no interest in making any speeches,” Elysian added. “But, for the record, I am no villain.”

Gisela laughed. “In my experience, you don’t get trapped in a custom-built prison and wiped from history unless you’ve done something truly horrifying—by the Council’s definition at least.”

“This is my home—not a prison,” Elysian corrected. “You just cannot see the true wonders of it.”

“Does that mean there are more illusions we haven’t broken through yet?” Sophie asked, turning a slow circle, trying to spot another anomaly among the vibrant trees—some hint of a house or structure, hidden by the light.

“You have already seen too much,” Elysian told her. “And it does not matter. What matters is that I stay here because I choose to.”

“Ah, but that’s the funny thing about choice.” Gisela cut in. “You can think you’re doing exactly what you want—and all the while you’re being manipulated. If you don’t believe me, ask the moonlark. Or my son, for that matter.”

“Easy, Foster,” Keefe mumbled as Sophie gritted her teeth. 

“Let my mom keep talking. Maybe we’ll get lucky and she’ll annoy Elysian enough to get herself clobbered.”

“I have no intention of harming anyone,” Elysian informed him. “Unlike the rest of you. I saw what you were about to do. I saw your blades raised. Fires sparked. Strange reddish lightning erupting from your hands—and from children, no less.”

“We’re not children,” Fitz argued, standing up taller. “And we were just defending ourselves.”

“Yeah, maybe you saw how she turned Vespera into that freaky thing over there,” Maruca said, pointing to Lady Gisela and then to the dark, jagged shape Sophie had been trying very hard not to look at.

Elysian shuddered. “I did see that.”

“That was Mommy Dearest’s former partner, in case you were wondering,” Keefe told her. “Keep that in mind when she gives you her little sales pitch.”

“I don’t care who she was—or who any of you are!” Elysian stepped closer to Gisela. “I just want to know where you found that stone.”

“Why?” Gisela countered.

“I do not owe you any answers!”

“I could say the same thing to you.” Gisela flashed another too-tight smile. “You claim to pose no threat—so why should I give you any information? Especially when you refuse to extend me the same courtesy?”

“See?” Keefe told Sophie. “She’s getting close to clobber-time!”

“Violence is not a solution,” Elysian argued.

“Then what was with that whole ‘you will strongly regret’ threat you made?” Keefe asked.

“That was not a threat. That was a fact.” Elysian’s tone was sharper than a goblin throwing star when she added. “Violence is not necessary for there to be consequences.”

“Is that because you’re the ‘power source’?” Gisela asked. “At least explain that. After all, you’re the one who brought it up.”

“And I have already said what you need to know. I am the power in this place. That is all.”

Gisela raised one eyebrow. “Do you really think that counts as an answer?”

Keefe elbowed Sophie. “Clobber! Clobber! Clobber! Clob—”

“Stop!” Elysian hugged herself and took a long breath before she told Gisela, “I will answer one question if you answer one of mine. That is the most I will give.”

Gisela considered that. “Fine. Tell me why we can’t use our abilities right now.”

“I cannot answer that question—and I do not say that to be stubborn. Truly, I do not understand it. It is simply something that happens.”

“Because of you, or this place?” Fitz asked.

“My deal is not with you,” Elysian told him. “And I have satisfied my end of the bargain. So now you will tell me where you found that rock,” she ordered Gisela.

“Tell me why you care so much about it, and I will,” Gisela countered. “Seems only fair, since you ignored my other question.”

Several silent breaths crawled by before Elysian murmured, “Councillor Fallon assured me that every shard had been destroyed.”

Gisela clapped her hands as Sophie glanced at Fitz, noting that he seemed surprised to hear the name of his ancient relative. “How shocking! Another lie from the Council!”

“It is more than a lie,” Elysian said quietly. “It is…”

“What?” Gisela pressed.

Elysian shook her head hard, not seeming to notice that the motion knocked back her hood, finally revealing her face. 

Pale, freckled skin.

Turquoise eyes.

Round cheeks and a snub nose, both of which made her look much younger than Sophie would've expected.

If it weren't for the enormous points on her ears, Sophie might've guessed Elysian was in her early twenties—but the ears always gave the Ancients away.

"You with me, Foster?" Keefe whispered, making Sophie jump as he leaned in close enough for his breath to tickle her cheek. "You're getting that cute little crinkle between your eyebrows right now—does that mean you're thinking the same thing I am?"

"Probably not," Sophie whispered back.

The truth was, she hadn't really been thinking about anything—except Elysian's ears—which was extra ridiculous because she was standing there, letting Gisela run the conversation, when they were in the middle of...

Honestly, she had no idea how to even finish that sentence.

Her brain was spinning into weirdness overload.

"I'm guessing the reason your pulse just sped up is because you're freaking out about Elysian and not because you're wishing I could kiss you right now, right?" Keefe whispered, snorting when Sophie's jaw dropped. "Ha! Thought that might snap you out of your panic."

Sophie glanced at Fitz to make sure he wasn't listening before she glared at Keefe.

"I know, I know. It's not the right time," he told her, and she thought that was the end of it, until he leaned in and whispered. “But admit it—now you’re thinking about kissing me.”

“Keefe!”

He smirked. “You can ‘Keefe’ me all you want—it won’t hide that adorable blush.”

“I’m serious, Keefe,” Sophie whisper-hissed, pulling her hair forward like a shield. “I can’t believe you’re joking around right now!”

“Uh—I can. Do you have any idea how awesome it is to speak without worrying I’m going to give some creepy command and accidentally numb everyone? The Voice of Doom is gone—for the moment, at least. Plus, I could tell your thoughts were spiraling, and I need you to focus.”

“Why?”

“Because—”

“Should I assume you two are discussing some sort of ill-conceived plan?” Lady Gisela interrupted, making them both jerk away from each other.

Keefe recovered first. “Actually, I was just trying to get Foster to relax. It wasn’t like you two were going to say anything interesting. I’ve seen this dance before. It’s all veiled threats and vague nonanswers. Boring! So I figured, why not take my chance to flirt with a cute girl instead? You never know when it’ll be the last time.”

“Keefe!” Sophie kept her gaze firmly on her feet so she wouldn’t have to see anyone’s reactions.

Especially Fitz’s.

Which was probably why it took her a second to catch the warning in Keefe’s final words.

“It’s fine, Foster.” Keefe told her when her head darted up. “We knew this would happen eventually. There’s only one way this is ever going to end.”

“And how’s that?” his mom asked.

“Well, let’s see.” Keefe stepped farther away from Sophie—more of a strut than a walk, which matched the confidence in his tone as he told his mom, “We already know you’re going to try to recruit Elysian—and it’s not going to work because she’s either too smart or too stubborn. I can’t tell. Either way, eventually, you’re going to give up on your ‘pretend we’re allies’ plan, tap your shiny earpiece, and call back some of your nasty troll-beasties, so we can find out if Elysian was bluffing when she said you’d regret that—and I’m pretty sure she isn’t bluffing, so that’s when it’s going to get super scary and chaotic. Lots of screaming and running around, trying not to get eaten. Maybe even some freaky stuff we’ve never seen before, like whatever took our abilities away. And that’s when Foster will do what Foster does best—shift into hero mode and come up with an awesome strategy to get her friends out of here safely—though we all know she’ll probably end up in the Healing Center after she pulls it off. And I’m sure you’ll somehow manage to get away, since you always do. And Elysian will stay here, doing. . .whatever she does. Maybe plotting some sort of revenge for us messing up her home-prison thing. Who knows? What I do know is that we’ll all be stuck playing the waiting game, wondering who’s going to make the next move—scrambling to come up with a plan, probably doing a bunch of boring research—and you know what? I’m really not in the mood for that.”

“Neither am I,” Marella jumped in.

“Me neither,” Maruca added.

“Same,” Fitz said, taking a subtle step closer to Sandor’s fallen sword.

“For the record, I am not a fan of that either,” Elysian noted.

Keefe applauded. “Awesome! I have a really easy way to avoid it!”

“Do you, now?” his mom said.

“I do! Because I still have Hope.”

“Hope.”

The word clattered around Sophie’s head as Lady Gisela repeated it—then plopped to her stomach with a burning slosh when Keefe’s meaning sank in.

Hope was the name Sophie had given her dagger.

The same dagger Keefe had stolen from her holster and tried to stab his mom with before Elysian appeared.

“Hope is the answer,” Keefe said, locking eyes with Sophie.

“Nothing is ever going to change that. Not Elysian, or whatever secrets the Council has buried here. Hope is how we end this. You know I’m right. So let’s stop stalling, shall we, and get this over with?”

With that, he drew the shiny silver dagger and lunged, tackling his mom to the ground.

Staining the grass red.
